.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_112_4_release_notes:

NSS 3.112.4 release notes
========================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.112.4 was released on *13 April 2026**.

`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_112_4_RTM. NSS 3.112.4 requires NSPR 4.36 or newer.

   NSS 3.112.4 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_112_4_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _changes_in_nss_3.112.4:

`Changes in NSS 3.112.4 <#changes_in_nss_3.112.4>`__
------------------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   -  Bug 2030135 - improve error handling in PK11_ImportPrivateKeyInfoAndReturnKey.
   -  Bug 2029752 - Improving the allocation of S/MIME DecryptSymKey.
   -  Bug 2029462 - store email on subject cache_entry in NSS trust domain.
   -  Bug 2029425 - Heap use-after-free in cert_VerifyCertChainOld via dangling certsList[] entry on NameConstraints violation.
   -  Bug 2029323 - Improve size calculations in CMS content buffering.
   -  Bug 2028001 - avoid integer overflow while escaping RFC822 Names.
   -  Bug 2027378 - Reject excessively large ASN.1 SEQUENCE OF in quickder.
   -  Bug 2027365 - Deep copy profile data in CERT_FindSMimeProfile.
   -  Bug 2027345 - Improve input validation in DSAU signature decoding.
   -  Bug 2026311 - avoid integer overflow in RSA_EMSAEncodePSS.
   -  Bug 2019357 - RSA_EMSAEncodePSS should validate the length of mHash.
   -  Bug 2026156 - Add a maximum cert uncompressed len and tests.
   -  Bug 2026089 - Clarify extension negotiation mechanism for TLS Handshakes.
   -  Bug 2023209 - ensure permittedSubtrees don't match wildcards that could be outside the permitted tree.
   -  Bug 2023207 - Fix integer underflow in tls13_AEAD when ciphertext is shorter than tag.
   -  Bug 2019224 - Remove invalid PORT_Free().
   -  Bug 1964722 - free digest objects in SEC_PKCS7DecoderFinish if they haven't already been freed.
   -  Bug 1935995 - make ss->ssl3.hs.cookie an owned-copy of the cookie.

