.. _mozilla_projects_nss_nss_3_90_6_release_notes:

NSS 3.90.6 release notes
========================

`Introduction <#introduction>`__
--------------------------------

.. container::

   Network Security Services (NSS) 3.90.6 was released on **13th April 2026**.


`Distribution Information <#distribution_information>`__
--------------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   The HG tag is NSS_3_90_6_RTM. NSS 3.90.6 requires NSPR 4.35 or newer.

   NSS 3.90.6 source distributions are available on ftp.mozilla.org for secure HTTPS download:

   -  Source tarballs:
      https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/security/nss/releases/NSS_3_90_6_RTM/src/

   Other releases are available :ref:`mozilla_projects_nss_releases`.

.. _changes_in_nss_3.90.6:

`Changes in NSS 3.90.6 <#changes_in_nss_3.90.6>`__
--------------------------------------------------

.. container::

   - Bug 2030135 - improve error handling in PK11_ImportPrivateKeyInfoAndReturnKey.
   - Bug 2029462 - store email on subject cache_entry in NSS trust domain.
   - Bug 2029425 - Heap use-after-free in cert_VerifyCertChainOld via dangling certsList[] entry on NameConstraints violation.
   - Bug 2029323 - Improve size calculations in CMS content buffering.
   - Bug 2028001 - avoid integer overflow while escaping RFC822 Names.
   - Bug 2027378 - Reject excessively large ASN.1 SEQUENCE OF in quickder.
   - Bug 2027365 - Deep copy profile data in CERT_FindSMimeProfile.
   - Bug 2027345 - Improve input validation in DSAU signature decoding.
   - Bug 2026089 - Clarify extension negotiation mechanism for TLS Handshakes.
   - Bug 2023209 - ensure permittedSubtrees don't match wildcards that could be outside the permitted tree.
   - Bug 2009552 - avoid integer overflow in platform-independent ghash.
   - Bug 1935995 - make ss->ssl3.hs.cookie an owned-copy of the cookie.


`Compatibility <#compatibility>`__
----------------------------------

.. container::

   NSS 3.90.6 shared libraries are backwards-compatible with all older NSS 3.x shared
   libraries. A program linked with older NSS 3.x shared libraries will work with
   this new version of the shared libraries without recompiling or
   relinking. Furthermore, applications that restrict their use of NSS APIs to the
   functions listed in NSS Public Functions will remain compatible with future
   versions of the NSS shared libraries.

`Feedback <#feedback>`__
------------------------

.. container::

   Bugs discovered should be reported by filing a bug report on
   `bugzilla.mozilla.org <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=NSS>`__ (product NSS).
